1. Introduction

Welcome to the LSC Algorithm Library (LAL). The LAL web site:

   http://www.lsc-group.phys.uwm.edu/daswg/projects/lal.html

contains many useful links for LAL users and developers. 

There are two LAL mail lists/archives.  These are:

  LAL-Announce: general LAL announcements including release announcements.
  http://www.lsc-group.phys.uwm.edu/mailman/listinfo.cgi/lal-announce

  LAL-Discuss: general LAL discussion forum (but *not* for filing bug reports)
  http://www.lsc-group.phys.uwm.edu/mailman/listinfo.cgi/lal-discuss

If you intend to use LAL with LALApps please consult the LALApps README
available at:

   http://www.lsc-group.phys.uwm.edu/daswg/projects/lalapps.html

BEFORE building LAL.


------------------------------------------------------------------------------

2. Getting released versions of LAL

Official releases of LAL are produced from time to time. These releases are
intended for production scientific analysis, for example on line analysis
during science runs. If you intend to develop LAL code you should obtain LAL
via CVS as described in section 3 of this README.

The latest released version of LAL is available as gzipped tar files from the
LAL web site:

http://www.lsc-group.phys.uwm.edu/daswg/projects/lal.html#releases

The file README.install contains instructions for building and installing LAL
from a released version.

The file README.bugs gives instructions for filing bug reports for LAL.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

3. Getting the LAL source code from CVS

The source code for LAL is stored in the lscsoft CVS archive. If you are a LAL
developer you should obtain a user name and password for the lscsoft archive.
Instruction on how to do this are at

http://www.lsc-group.phys.uwm.edu/daswg/docs/howto/lscsoft-cvs.html

If you just wish to browse the source without contributing any code you may
use the user name anonymous and the password lscsoft to access the archive.

To obtain the current development version of LAL first log into the lscsoft
CVS server. Type the following command, replacing USERNAME with your lscsoft
user name (or anonymous): 

  cvs -d :pserver:USERNAME@gravity.phys.uwm.edu:2402/usr/local/cvs/lscsoft login

Enter your password when prompted (or enter lscsoft if using the anonymous
user).

* Note that some old versions of CVS (e.g. the version that comes with Mac OS
X 10.3) cannot access the CVS server due to the server operating on port 2402
rather than 2401. If you receive an error similar to

  2402/usr/local/cvs/lscsoft: no such repository

you will need to obtain a newer version of CVS (OS X users may use the CVS
available via Fink).

Choose a directory in which you are going to build and install LAL, for 
example ${HOME}/opt/lal

Set the environment variable LAL_LOCATION to this directory. If you use a
Bourne shell (e.g. bash) type

  LAL_LOCATION=${HOME}/opt/lal          # <- change this as appropriate
  export LAL_LOCATION

If you use a C-shell (e.g. tcsh) type

  setenv LAL_LOCATION ${HOME}/opt/lal   # <- change this as appropriate

Next use CVS to checkout the lal source code. Type the following, again
replacing USERNAME with your lscsoft user name (or anonymous):

  mkdir -p ${LAL_LOCATION}/src
  cd ${LAL_LOCATION}/src
  cvs -d :pserver:USERNAME@gravity.phys.uwm.edu:2402/usr/local/cvs/lscsoft checkout lal

This will create a directory called lal the directory ${LAL_LOCATION}/src
which contains the contents of the LAL CVS archive.


------------------------------------------------------------------------------

4. Create the various LAL build scripts.

Some of the LAL build scripts and documentation need to be generated from the
CVS sources before LAL can be built. These include the README.install file
which contains detailed instructions on building LAL. 

To make these files, you will need m4, aclocal, autoheader, automake, and
autoconf installed. Most modern UNIX or Linux systems will suitable versions
installed.

Change to the LAL source directory you just downloaded by typing

  cd lal

and run the shell script

  ./00boot

to build the LAL build scripts and README.install file. 

* Note that the file README.install can be generated directly using the
following commands:

   sed -f doc/txtstrip.sed doc/lal-preinstall-x.sh > doc/lal-preinstall.txt
   sed -f doc/txtstrip.sed doc/lal-install-x.sh > doc/lal-install.txt
   m4 doc/install.m4 > README.install

Once you have run 00boot you are ready to build and install LAL. 


------------------------------------------------------------------------------

5. Building and Installing LAL from CVS Sources

If you are planning on using LAL with LALApps, you should consult the LALApps
README before continuing.

The instructions for building and installing LAL can be found in the file
README.install


------------------------------------------------------------------------------

7. Reporting Bugs in LAL

The file README.bugs gives instructions for filing bug reports for LAL.


------------------------------------------------------------------------------

7. Contributing Code to LAL

The file README.contrib gives instructions for contributing code to LAL.


------------------------------------------------------------------------------

8. Logging Out of CVS

If you wish to log out of the CVS server, type the command 

  cvs -d :pserver:USERNAME@gravity.phys.uwm.edu:2402/usr/local/cvs/lscsoft logout

replacing USERNAME with your lscsoft user name (or anonymous). It is not
necessary to log out of the CVS server. Developers should generally stay
logged in to allow them to commit new code and get updates.


------------------------------------------------------------------------------

9. Further Information

If anything in this README is unclear, please send an email to the lal-discuss
mailing list asking for clarification.
