GLUE: Grid LSC User Environment

Glue is a collection of utilities for running data analysis pipelines for
online and offline analysis as well as accessing various grid utilities.
It also provides the infrastructure for the segment database.

The Glue web site:

   http://www.lsc-group.phys.uwm.edu/daswg/projects/glue.html

contains many useful links for Glue users and developers. 

If you have questions or comments about Glue, please send them to the 
lal-discuss mailing list. You may join this list at:
There are two LALApps mail lists/archives which are shared with LAL. These are:

  http://www.lsc-group.phys.uwm.edu/mailman/listinfo.cgi/lal-discuss

This README file explains how to build and install Glue.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1. Determine your Python version

Python version 2.2 or greater is required to install Glue. Type:

  python -V

to determine the version of python installed on your machine. For example:

  [duncan@contra lalapps]$ python -V
  Python 2.2.2

On some operating systems (e.g. Red Hat 7.3) the program named python runs
python version 1 and the version 2 executable is named python2. If python -V
does not return 2.2 or greater, type:

  python2 -V

For example:

  [dbrown@neutron dbrown]$ python2 -V
  Python 2.3

If you do not have version 2.2 or greater installed, contact your system
administrator for help installing Python.

Set the environment variable PYTHON to be the name of your python version 2
executable. For example if your executable is named python, bash or sh users
should type:

  export PYTHON=python

and csh users should type:

  setenv PYTHON python

If your executable is named python2, bash or sh users should type:

  export PYTHON=python2

and csh users should type:

  setenv PYTHON python2


------------------------------------------------------------------------------

2. Get Glue from CVS

First choose a directory in which to install the Glue sources. In this
example, we install the sources into ${HOME}/src. If you decide to install
somewhere else, change ${HOME}/src to the directory you have chosen. Change
anonymous in the cvs checkout below to your lscsoft CVS user name, if you have
one. Type:

  mkdir -p ${HOME}/src
  cd ${HOME}/src
  cvs -d :pserver:anonymous@gravity.phys.uwm.edu:2402/usr/local/cvs/lscsoft checkout glue

This will create a directory ${HOME}/src/glue containing the Glue sources.


------------------------------------------------------------------------------

3. Build and Install Glue

Choose a location in which to install Glue. In this example we choose
/opt/glue. You must have write access to this directory, so you may wish to
install in ${HOME}, for example. Set the environment variable ${GLUE_LOCATION}
to point to your chosen install directory. Bash or sh users should type:

  export GLUE_LOCATION=/opt/glue

and csh users should type:

  setenv GLUE_LOCATION /opt/glue

Assuming you have installed the glue sources in ${HOME}/src/glue, type:

  cd ${HOME}/src/glue
  ${PYTHON} setup.py install --prefix=${GLUE_LOCATION}

This will build and install all the glue modules and programs.


------------------------------------------------------------------------------

4. Set up your Environment for Using Glue

If you are a bash or sh user, edit your .profile (or .bash_profile) file and
add the lines (changing /opt/glue to wherever you installed Glue):

  export GLUE_LOCATION=/opt/glue
  if [ -f ${GLUE_LOCATION}/etc/glue-user-env.sh ] ; then
    source ${GLUE_LOCATION}/etc/glue-user-env.sh
  fi

If you are a csh user, edit your .login file and add the lines (changing
/opt/glue to wherever you installed Glue):

  setenv GLUE_LOCATION /opt/glue
  if ( -f ${GLUE_LOCATION}/etc/glue-user-env.csh ) then
    source ${GLUE_LOCATION}/etc/glue-user-env.csh
  endif

Now log out and log back in to ensure that all environment variables have been
updated. 

You may now use Glue! Please report any problems via the Gnats database linked
from the Glue home page.
